Docsp 30537: Access Data from Cursor (#23)
mongodb/docs-rust: source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/cursor.txt

.. _rust-cursor-guide:

=========================
Access Data From a Cursor
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to access data with a **cursor**.

A cursor is a mechanism that allows an application to iterate over
database results while holding only a subset of them in memory at a
given time. Read operations that match multiple documents use a cursor
to return those documents in batches as opposed to all at once.

.. tip::

   Batch size of the cursor can be configured using the options of the
   method that returns it. For example, setting the batch_size field of
   ``FindOptions`` will set the batch size of the cursor returned by
   ``Collection::find``. For more information, see `Cursor

>    <{+api+}/struct.Cursor.html>`__ in the API documentation.

Reviewer: Issue:

I think batch size hasn't been introduced yet, so this comment is out of place.

Suggestion:

Omit this information.

Alternatively,  create a new section that explains how you can configure Cursors such as specifying batch size and include this info.

Sample Cursor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Each section uses the following ``cursor`` variable, which is a

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think it would be better to omit this since the cursor variable is declared in each example. I think it is also unrelated to the Overview, which should be limited to presenting the concepts and what the user should expect to find on the page.

``Cursor`` struct that contains all the documents in a collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/cursor.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin cursor def
   :end-before: end cursor def

.. tip::

   For more information of the ``find()`` method, see
   :ref:`rust-retrieve-guide`.

.. _rust-individual-documents:

Retrieve Documents Individually
-------------------------------

> To retrieve documents from your cursor individually, use the

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think the first sentence of this section should identify what it means to retrieve documents individually. I think the adverb "individually" is ambiguous, so the introductory sentence should clarify the meaning. "to iterate through each document returned by a cursor, call the next() method on the cursor."

   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-cursor-next
   :end-before: end-cursor-next

To attempt retrieving documents from your cursor individually, use the
``try_next()`` method in the ``futures::stream::TryStreamExt`` crate:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/cursor.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin try next
   :end-before: end try next

.. _rust-all-documents:

Retrieve All Documents
----------------------

To populate an array with all of your query results, use the ``collect()``
method in the ``futures::stream::StreamExt`` crate:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/cursor.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin cursor collect
   :end-before: end cursor collect

To attempt to populate an array with all of your query results, use the
``try_collect()`` method in the ``futures::stream::TryStreamExt`` crate:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/cursor.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin try collect
   :end-before: end try collect

Additional Information
----------------------

> A cursor in the {+driver-short+} will automatically be closed via an
> asynchronous ``killCursors`` command if the cursor is still open
> when it goes out of scope.

Reviewer: Issues:

1) I think it's inaccurate to talk about an instance of a cursor as being "in the [driver]".
2) Perhaps because of how the sentence is constructed, it introduces passive voice. It does not explain who/what is performing the action of closing the cursor.
3) More of a suggestion, but from the style guide, "use present tense" when possible ("will" is future tense).
4) I'm not sure this information is easy for the reader to find. It seems important enough to add to a new section about closing cursors.

Suggestion:

```suggestion
The driver closes cursors automatically. If an instance of a cursor goes out of scope, the driver automatically runs the asynchronous ``killCursors`` command to remove it.
```

To learn more about the operations discussed in this guide, see the

> following guides:

Reviewer: Suggestion:
One way to avoid using "guides" twice in the same sentence could be:
"To learn more about these Cursor functions, see the following documentation:"

- :ref:`rust-retrieve-guide`
- :ref:`rust-query-guide`

> - :manual:`Tailable Cursors </core/tailable-cursors/>`

Reviewer: Issue:
From the style guide, [Make Link Text Clear](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/links-and-cross-references/#make-link-text-clear):

> Use descriptive text indicating where the URL will take the reader.

Suggestion:

```suggestion
- :manual:`Tailable Cursors </core/tailable-cursors/> in the Server manual`
```
